= sheldon-client

This is the basic library to fetch data from or store data to sheldon. This
gem is not publicly available. To install it, check out the source, bundle
and install the gem manually, like that:

  git clone git@github.com:moviepilot/sheldon-client.git
  cd sheldon-client
  bundle
  rake build
  
= Sheldon Communication

As this is a simple REST wrapper, we keep things fairly simple here. If
we need a more sophisticated version of this, we should consider moving
to ActiveResource or any other REST wrapper. 

First of all you might want to check out this small example.

  irb > gem 'sheldon-client'
  irb > SheldonClient.host = 'http://sheldon.labs.mvp.to:2311' # this is the default host
  irb > SheldonClient.search :movies, title: 'The Matrix'
  => [#<Sheldon::Node 430 (Movie/The Matrix)>] 
  irb > _.first.payload['production_year']
  => "1999" 
  
Beside searching, you can use SheldonClient to create edges. Please 
consult your sheldon manual (aka jayniz) for valid edge types.

  irb > matrix = SheldonClient.search( :movies, title: 'The Matrix' ).first
  irb > action = SheldonClient.search( :genres, name: 'Action').first
  irb > SheldonClient.create_edge from: matrix, to: action, type: 'hasGenre', payload: { weight: 1.0 }
  => true

Please bear in mind, that this client library does little to no validations.
So if you get an exception, you probably passed in options that sheldon (or
this client for that matter) cannot deal with. Feel free to improve stability
if necessary.

= Configuration

There just two basic configuration settings. You can set the sheldon host
and you can activate logging. If you omit the :log_file option, sheldon-client
will log to stdout. 

  irb > SheldonClient.host = 'http://my.sheldon/host'
  irb > SheldonClient.log  = true
  irb > SheldonClient.log_file = '/var/log/sheldon-slow.log'


= Functions and example code

== Fetching node

Fetch a single node object from sheldon

=== Parameters

* <tt>id</tt> - the sheldon id

=== Examples

  SheldonClient.node 17007
  => #<Sheldon::Node 17007 (Movie/Tonari no Totoro)>

== Fetching edge

Fetches a single edge from shelson

=== Parameters

 * <tt>id</tt> - The sheldon id of the edge

=== Examples

  SheldonClient.edge 5
  => #<Sheldon::Edge 5 (GenreTagging/2->1)> 


== Checking if an edge exist

Checks if an edge of a certain type exist between two 
nodes in sheldon

=== Parameters

 * <tt>sheldon node</tt> - Source node
 * <tt>sheldon node</tt> - Target node
 * <tt>type</tt> - Edge type

=== Examples

  movie = SheldonClient.search(:movies, { title: 'The Matrix'} ).first
  genre = SheldonClient.search(:genres, { name: 'Action'} ).first
  SheldonClient.edge? movie, genre, 'genre_taggings'
  SheldonClient.edge? 416, 190637, 'genre_taggings'
   => #<Sheldon::Edge 6113 (GenreTagging/416->190637)>

== Fetching outgoing/ingoing edges from a node
Fetch all the edges of a certain type connected to a given node.

=== Parameters

* <tt> node </tt> The node that we are going to fetch edges from
* <tt> type </tt> The egde type we are interesting in

=== Examples

 movie = SheldonClient.search(:movies, { title: '99 Euro*'} ).first
 edges = SheldonClient.fetch_edges(movie, 'genre_taggings')

 genre = SheldonClient.search(:genres, name: 'Drama').first
 edges = SheldonClient.fetch_edges(genre, 'genre_taggings')

== Fetching node by facebook id

Fetches an node regardless the node type.

=== Parameters

<tt>fbid</tt> - The facebook id

=== Examples

  SheldonClient.search( '1234567' )
    => #<Sheldon::Node 17007 (Movie/Mononoke Hime)>

== Creating node
Create a new node at sheldon.

=== Parameters
* <tt>options</tt> - The payload for the node

=== Examples

Create a new movie node

   SheldonClient.create_node(type: :movie, payload: { title: "Full Metal Jacket" })
   => SheldonClient::Node object

   SheldonClient.create_node(type: 'users', payload: { username:'Britney Spears', facebook_ids: '542032345 })
   => SheldonClient::Node object

== Creating edge
Create an edge between two sheldon nodes. 

=== Parameters

* <tt>options</tt> - the options to create an edge. This must include 
                    <tt>from</tt>, 
                    <tt>to</tt>, 
                    <tt>type</tt> 
                    <tt>payload</tt>. 
                    The <tt>to</tt> and <tt>from</tt> option
                    accepts a SheldonClient::Node Object or an integer.

=== Examples

Create an edge between a movie and a genre.

   matrix = SheldonClient.search( :movies, title: 'The Matrix' ).first
   action = SheldonClient.search( :genres, name: 'Action').first
   SheldonClient.create_edge {from: matrix, to: action, type: 'genretagging', payload: { weight: 1.0 }
   => true


== Updating node
Updates the payload in a node

= Parameters
* <tt>options</tt> - The options that is going to be updated in the node
  include the <tt>payload</tt>

=== Examples 

Update a node

  SheldonClient.update_node( 450, {  year: '1999'} )
   => true

  SheldonClient.update_node( 456, {  title: 'Air bud'} )
   => true


== Deleting Node

Deletes a node from the database

=== Parameters
* <tt>id</tt> - The node id we want to be deleted from the database 

=== Examples 
 SheldonClient.delete_node(2011)
  => true

 SheldonClient.delete_node(201) //Non existant node
  => false

== Deleting edge
 Deletes a edge from the database
 
=== Parameters
 * <tt>id</tt> - The edge id we want to be deleted from the database 
 
=== Examples 
  SheldonClient.delete_edge(332)
   => true

  SheldonClient.delete_edge(65) //Non existant edge
   => false


== Searching for nodes
Search for Sheldon Nodes. This will return an array of SheldonClient::Node Objects
or an empty array.

=== Parameters

* <tt>type</tt> - plural of any known sheldon node type like :movies or :genres
* <tt>options</tt> - the search option that will be forwarded to lucene. This depends
  on the type, see below.

=== Search Options

Depending on the type of nodes you're searching for, different search options should
be provided. Please refer to the sheldon documentation for the most up-to-date version
of this. As of today, the following search options are supported.

* <tt>movies</tt> - title, production_year
* <tt>genres</tt> - name
* <tt>person</tt> - name

Sheldon will pass the search options to lucene, so if an option is supported and 
interpreted as exptected need to be verified by the Sheldon team. See http://bit.ly/hBpr4a
for more information.
 
=== Examples

Search for a specific movie

  SheldonClient.search :movies, { title: 'The Matrix' }
  SheldonClient.search :movies, { title: 'Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas', production_year: 1998 }

Search for a specific genre
 
   SheldonClient.search :genres, { name: 'Action' }

And now with wildcards

   SheldonClient.search :movies, { title: 'Fist*' }

== Fetch all node ids of a certain type
Fetches all the sheldon node ids of a given node type

=== Parameters

  * <tt>type</tt> - The node type

=== Examples

  SheldonClient.get_node_ids_of_type( 'movies' )
  => [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8, ..... ,9999]


== Reindex node

Reindexes a node in sheldon

=== Paremeters

 * <tt>node_id</tt> - The node

=== Examples

 SheldonClient.reindex_node( 13 )
 => true

 SheldonClient.reindex_node( 37 ) // Non existing node
 => false

== Fetch all node types
Fetches all the node types supported by Sheldon

=== Examples
  SheldonClient.get_node_types
  => ['Movie', 'Actor', 'Genre'....]  

== Fetch all edge types
Fetches all the egde types supported by Sheldon

=== Examples
  SheldonClient.get_edge_types
  => ['Like', 'Acting'...]


== Fetch high score edges
  Fetches all the high score edges for a user.
  It can fetch all of them, tracked or the untracked

=== Parameters
  * <tt>id</tt> - The id of the sheldon user node
  * <tt>type</tt> - 'tracked' or 'untracked', Optimal parameter. Determins which type of edges that will be returned

=== Examples
  SheldonClient.get_highscores 4
  => [ {'id' => 5, 'from' => 6, 'to' => 1, 'payload' => { 'weight' => 5}} ]
  SheldonClient.get_highscores 4 'tracked'
  => [ {'id' => 5, 'from' => 6, 'to' => 1, 'payload' => { 'weight' => 5}} ]
  SheldonClient.get_highscores 4 'untracked'
  => [ {'id' => 5, 'from' => 6, 'to' => 1, 'payload' => { 'weight' => 5}} ]

  SheldonClient.get_highscores_tracked 4
  => [ {'id' => 5, 'from' => 6, 'to' => 1, 'payload' => { 'weight' => 5}} ]

  SheldonClient.get_highscores_untracked 4
  => [ {'id' => 5, 'from' => 6, 'to' => 1, 'payload' => { 'weight' => 5}} ]
 

== Fetchrecommendended containers
Fetches all the recommended containers

== Parameters

 * <tt>id</tt> - User node id

== Examples

  SheldonClient.get_recommendations 4
  => [
      { id: "50292929"
      , type: "Movie"
        , payload: { title: "Matrix"
                   , production_year: 1999
                   , has_container: "true" }
     ]
  


= Contributing to sheldon-client
 
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

= Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Pontus Lindstrom, Benjamin Krause. See LICENSE.txt for
further details.

